blog/2021-09-30-how-i-created-a-bot-in-python-to-participate-in-nft-giveaways.md, before:

---
slug: how-i-created-a-bot-in-python-to-participate-in-nft-giveaways
title: How I created a bot in python to participate in NFT giveaways
date: 2021-09-30
image: https://github-production-user-asset-6210df.s3.amazonaws.com/88618738/280496989-d965410f-6a4d-40b1-92d1-2e3fb4e24462.png
tags: ['Python', 'Bot', 'NFT', 'Giveaways', 'Reddit', 'Automation']
description: In this blogpost, I share how I created a bot in Python to automate participation in NFT giveaways on Reddit. The bot simplifies tasks such as upvoting posts, commenting, and opening Opensea links to favourite artwork.
---

<p align="center">
    <img width="600" src="https://github-production-user-asset-6210df.s3.amazonaws.com/88618738/280496989-d965410f-6a4d-40b1-92d1-2e3fb4e24462.png"/>
</p>

<br />

In this blogpost, I share how I created a bot in Python to automate participation in NFT giveaways on Reddit. The bot simplifies tasks such as upvoting posts, commenting, and opening Opensea links to favourite artwork.

The open source code is available [here](https://github.com/DidierRLopes/GiveawayNFTbot).

<!-- truncate -->

<div style={{borderTop: '1px solid #0088CC', margin: '1.5em 0'}} />

Lately I’ve been looking into NFTs. I’ve observed that more and more people are trying to innovate and create their own pieces of art. Some of them are impressive, some of them aren’t. But,

> _Beauty is in the eye of the beholder — Margaret Wolfe Hungerford_

<br />

However, in my humble opinion, what distinguishes some art from others, is most of the time not the art itself but the community around it. For example, when everyone starts talking about the ‘new best thing’ you feel more pressure to get involved.

Because of this dynamic, creators are investing in ways to increase their collectibles popularity by building their community. A great example is [ParallelNFT](https://parallel.life/) and the dystopic story that is being created around their cards — in their case, it’s fairly easy to understand that once a big community is formed around such cards, video games, movies and even series are on the table. For the first time ever, we would go from selling collectibles to creating some form of entertainment. A whole new industry in the making.

However, not every digital creator has the resources to create a full concept around their cards. Does this mean that they can’t create a community around it? No. But they must find other ways. One of the most popular ways I’ve seen is through giveaways. Similar to what small clothing brands do to increase their popularity. This is a great tactic in my opinion, since giveaway not only give you a bigger audience (people that participate and re-share content) but it makes the cards have multiple owners. This, as a result, makes the collection more attractive for NFT collectors.

_When demand exceeds supply_, **prices tend to rise.**

And these creators are using Reddit as the platform of their giveaways.

![image](https://github.com/Meg1211/my-website/assets/88618738/d965410f-6a4d-40b1-92d1-2e3fb4e24462)

When scrolling through reddit you will notice that all these posts have certain things in common:
- They ask for an up-vote on the post
- A comment with your wallet address
- To favourite their artwork
- They may also ask to you to join their Discord
- For a follow on their Twitter or Instagram
- If you can retweet or share a story

These are things that take time, and a bot can perfectly do this. Therefore, I wrote a [giveaway NFT bot](https://github.com/DidierRLopes/GiveawayNFTbot) to simplify my work. Now I just sit down and read robot vacuum reviews while the bot: upvotes, comments and opens their Opensea link for me to favourite their artwork.

I’ve already won multiple NFTs with this, which is exciting— you never know where the next [CryptoPunks](https://twitter.com/cryptopunksbot) are at.

There’s actually 1 collection that I particularly like and believe has a lot of potential, it’s called [CryptoCartoonEaters](https://opensea.io/collection/crypto-cartooneaters) and due to the uniqueness of each collectible (only 100 made), I really think it has a great potential. I acquired my favourite cartoon as a kid: Goku Eating a Burger.

![image](https://github.com/Meg1211/my-website/assets/88618738/c9c9f994-8fe8-401c-9b86-ad4f413da741)

Let me know if you find this article interesting, and if you used the bot as well!

Commit message:

update blog to use images hosted locally

blog/2021-09-30-how-i-created-a-bot-in-python-to-participate-in-nft-giveaways.md, after:

---
slug: how-i-created-a-bot-in-python-to-participate-in-nft-giveaways
title: How I created a bot in python to participate in NFT giveaways
date: 2021-09-30
image: /blog/2021-09-30-how-i-created-a-bot-in-python-to-participate-in-nft-giveaways.png
tags: ['Python', 'Bot', 'NFT', 'Giveaways', 'Reddit', 'Automation']
description: In this blogpost, I share how I created a bot in Python to automate participation in NFT giveaways on Reddit. The bot simplifies tasks such as upvoting posts, commenting, and opening Opensea links to favourite artwork.
---

<p align="center">
    <img width="600" src="/blog/2021-09-30-how-i-created-a-bot-in-python-to-participate-in-nft-giveaways.png"/>
</p>

<br />

In this blogpost, I share how I created a bot in Python to automate participation in NFT giveaways on Reddit. The bot simplifies tasks such as upvoting posts, commenting, and opening Opensea links to favourite artwork.

The open source code is available [here](https://github.com/DidierRLopes/GiveawayNFTbot).

<!-- truncate -->

<div style={{borderTop: '1px solid #0088CC', margin: '1.5em 0'}} />

Lately I’ve been looking into NFTs. I’ve observed that more and more people are trying to innovate and create their own pieces of art. Some of them are impressive, some of them aren’t. But,

> _Beauty is in the eye of the beholder — Margaret Wolfe Hungerford_

<br />

However, in my humble opinion, what distinguishes some art from others, is most of the time not the art itself but the community around it. For example, when everyone starts talking about the ‘new best thing’ you feel more pressure to get involved.

Because of this dynamic, creators are investing in ways to increase their collectibles popularity by building their community. A great example is [ParallelNFT](https://parallel.life/) and the dystopic story that is being created around their cards — in their case, it’s fairly easy to understand that once a big community is formed around such cards, video games, movies and even series are on the table. For the first time ever, we would go from selling collectibles to creating some form of entertainment. A whole new industry in the making.

However, not every digital creator has the resources to create a full concept around their cards. Does this mean that they can’t create a community around it? No. But they must find other ways. One of the most popular ways I’ve seen is through giveaways. Similar to what small clothing brands do to increase their popularity. This is a great tactic in my opinion, since giveaway not only give you a bigger audience (people that participate and re-share content) but it makes the cards have multiple owners. This, as a result, makes the collection more attractive for NFT collectors.

_When demand exceeds supply_, **prices tend to rise.**

And these creators are using Reddit as the platform of their giveaways.

![image](/blog/2021-09-30-how-i-created-a-bot-in-python-to-participate-in-nft-giveaways_1.png)

When scrolling through reddit you will notice that all these posts have certain things in common:
- They ask for an up-vote on the post
- A comment with your wallet address
- To favourite their artwork
- They may also ask to you to join their Discord
- For a follow on their Twitter or Instagram
- If you can retweet or share a story

These are things that take time, and a bot can perfectly do this. Therefore, I wrote a [giveaway NFT bot](https://github.com/DidierRLopes/GiveawayNFTbot) to simplify my work. Now I just sit down and read robot vacuum reviews while the bot: upvotes, comments and opens their Opensea link for me to favourite their artwork.

I’ve already won multiple NFTs with this, which is exciting— you never know where the next [CryptoPunks](https://twitter.com/cryptopunksbot) are at.

There’s actually 1 collection that I particularly like and believe has a lot of potential, it’s called [CryptoCartoonEaters](https://opensea.io/collection/crypto-cartooneaters) and due to the uniqueness of each collectible (only 100 made), I really think it has a great potential. I acquired my favourite cartoon as a kid: Goku Eating a Burger.

![image](/blog/2021-09-30-how-i-created-a-bot-in-python-to-participate-in-nft-giveaways_2.png)

Let me know if you find this article interesting, and if you used the bot as well!
