my-website/blog/2023-05-09-fully-free-financial-chatbot.md, before:

---
slug: fully-free-financial-chatbot
title: Fully free financial chatbot
date: 2023-05-09
image: https://github-production-user-asset-6210df.s3.amazonaws.com/88618738/280554646-7c937b83-3087-4bf9-8c06-27f7e042ad04.png
tags: ['OpenBB Bot', 'Financial Chatbot', 'Investment', 'Free', 'Discord', 'Telegram', 'Equity', 'Crypto', 'Options', 'Darkpool', 'Economy']
description: The OpenBB Bot is a financial chatbot that allows you to access financial data from Discord or Telegram along with other users. From equity data to crypto, options, darkpool, economy and much more! Now available for free to registered users.
---

<p align="center">
    <img width="600" src="https://github-production-user-asset-6210df.s3.amazonaws.com/88618738/280554646-7c937b83-3087-4bf9-8c06-27f7e042ad04.png"/>
</p>

<br />

The OpenBB Bot is a financial chatbot that allows you to access financial data from Discord or Telegram along with other users. From equity data to crypto, options, darkpool, economy and much more! Now available for free to registered users.

<!-- truncate -->

<div style={{borderTop: '1px solid #21af90', margin: '1.5em 0'}} />

The OpenBB Bot is a financial chatbot that allows you to access financial data from Discord or Telegram along with other users. From equity data to crypto, options, darkpool, economy and much more!

We know the market conditions haven’t been great for anyone, particularly for investors. Instead of raising prices like trends, we have decided to offer our OpenBB Bot individuals tier for free if you are a registered user.

While others zig, we zag. Here’s the updated pricing:

![image](https://github.com/Meg1211/my-website/assets/88618738/7c937b83-3087-4bf9-8c06-27f7e042ad04)

## WHAT DOES THIS MEAN FOR YOU?

Registered users for OpenBB Bot will see the following changes:

- Users were limited to 100 options or dark pools commands per month. This limitation is completely removed.
- Users will no longer experience a 10s cooldown which means they can request investment research data sequentially and avoid breaking the conversation due to a delay imposed by the product
- Through our soon-to-be-announced new platform, you will be able to fully customize your charting style with up to 5 in chart technical indicators and 2 off charts. This is a big improvement over the 1 in chart and 1 off chart previously available.
- The number of custom alerts that the user can set for when certain threshold values are triggered has increased, from 3 to 10.
- Users can now set 10 watchlist tickers to pay close attention to and access data regarding them.

Below is a video of what the OpenBB Bot is capable of:

![image](https://github.com/Meg1211/my-website/assets/88618738/d25cabf3-1f67-4339-8913-a773f4a95f87)

The interactive charts will open up within the OpenBB Hub and in it you will be able to fully customize the technical analysis indicators that you see on the chart and even the candle chart color theme and type. A demo is shown below,

**ADD YOUTUBE VIDEO**

Like dozens of thousands of investors, join the OpenBB Hub so you can fully leverage the OpenBB Bot.

You can actually see how many users we have utilizing the bot on a daily basis on our /open page.

Looking forward to feedback!

Commit message:

fix a few more blogs until the future of finance with open source and ai

my-website/blog/2023-05-09-fully-free-financial-chatbot.md, after:

---
slug: fully-free-financial-chatbot
title: Fully free financial chatbot
date: 2023-05-09
image: https://github-production-user-asset-6210df.s3.amazonaws.com/88618738/280554646-7c937b83-3087-4bf9-8c06-27f7e042ad04.png
tags: ['OpenBB Bot', 'Financial Chatbot', 'Investment', 'Free', 'Discord', 'Telegram', 'Equity', 'Crypto', 'Options', 'Darkpool', 'Economy']
description: The OpenBB Bot is a financial chatbot that allows you to access financial data from Discord or Telegram along with other users. From equity data to crypto, options, darkpool, economy and much more! Now available for free to registered users.
---

<p align="center">
    <img width="600" src="https://github-production-user-asset-6210df.s3.amazonaws.com/88618738/280554646-7c937b83-3087-4bf9-8c06-27f7e042ad04.png"/>
</p>

<br />

The OpenBB Bot is a financial chatbot that allows you to access financial data from Discord or Telegram along with other users. From equity data to crypto, options, darkpool, economy and much more! Now available for free to registered users.

<!-- truncate -->

<div style={{borderTop: '1px solid #21af90', margin: '1.5em 0'}} />

We know the market conditions haven’t been great for anyone, particularly for investors. Instead of raising prices like trends, we have decided to offer our [OpenBB Bot](https://my.openbb.co/app/bot) individuals tier for free if you are a registered user.

## What does this mean

Registered users for OpenBB Bot will see the following changes:

- Users were limited to 100 options or dark pools commands per month. This limitation is completely removed.
- Users will no longer experience a 10s cooldown which means they can request investment research data sequentially and avoid breaking the conversation due to a delay imposed by the product
- Through our soon-to-be-announced new platform, you will be able to fully customize your charting style with up to 5 in chart technical indicators and 2 off charts. This is a big improvement over the 1 in chart and 1 off chart previously available.
- The number of custom alerts that the user can set for when certain threshold values are triggered has increased, from 3 to 10.
- Users can now set 10 watchlist tickers to pay close attention to and access data regarding them.

Below is a video of what the OpenBB Bot is capable of:

![1_d1vD4AkwpYk42tdbHuMupQ](https://github.com/DidierRLopes/my-website/assets/25267873/b72852e8-ec33-4ec0-aa0e-6ea6290e3e20)

The interactive charts will open up within the [OpenBB Hub](https://my.openbb.co/) and in it you will be able to fully customize the technical analysis indicators that you see on the chart and even the candle chart color theme and type. A demo is shown below,

<div className="flex place-items-center justify-center items-center rounded-sm mx-auto">
    <iframe
        src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/y2aYr0tXji4?si=VOV-G0Oc8INtm59Y"
        width="800"
        height="400"
    />
</div>

<br />

Like dozens of thousands of investors, join the OpenBB Hub so you can fully leverage the [OpenBB Bot](https://my.openbb.co/app/bot).

You can actually see how many users we have utilizing the bot on a daily basis on our [/open page](https://openbb.co/company/open/bot).

While others zig, we zag. Here’s the updated pricing:

![image](https://github.com/Meg1211/my-website/assets/88618738/7c937b83-3087-4bf9-8c06-27f7e042ad04)

Looking forward to feedback!
